But still this doesn't feel interactive,
right?
We want it to feel like something's
happening cuz right now it just kind of
pops out.
You don't know if a request has been made,
you don't know what's happening.
Are you going to press it multiple times?
Are you freaked out?
You could be freaked out.
So let's start by adding
a simple time delay right here.
So I'm gonna go Sleep, and
hopefully one second, pretty good.
I'm gonna first started
off with 3 seconds, so
it's like really obvious to see and
feel the terribleness of this.
So I'm gonna just press
this button over this.
Is it requesting?
We don't even know what that okay,
there we go, it got deleted,
it just disappeared.
If you had a big list of items,
also in something shifted it
might be very hard to see.
It's not a great experience we should
probably fix all of these things at
the same time.
So we have two options we have
hx-indicator and swap delays.
Both are very exciting and
both solve different problems.
So let's start off with the indicator,
okay?
I want you to add these two
lines to your server which
is just saying hey statically
serve these directories.
I'll paste it in twitch chat
boomer websites are the best,
I mean fair statement, all right?
So I'm gonna go up to the Tippity top
up here and I'm just gonna say, hey.
There you go, serve out images,
serve out css.
That's why I had you kind of
use this project to begin with
because there is css, there is images.
You can look at it, we have some
stuff in there, that's gonna be nice.
So pretty simple right there.
Next we need to add this css link, so
that we have this beautiful css on here.
It's only three lines of css, so I'm gonna
go back to my template, go up to the tip
of the top, go to the head, add that
wonderful piece of code right there.
If you wanna use the course website,
go for it.
There we go, and we also have this little
beautiful image that we're gonna be using.
I took this directly from
the HTMX website, okay?
It's my image now,
that's mine it's our image, all right?
All right, fantastic,
I just tried to literally quick,
I just typed in colon
right Enter on a website.
That's not how you copy something,
it's just I can't help but to do that,
it's just in my head, but
just do it, all right?
So let's go and let's add that line.
What was the line?
Sorry, I got completely confused there.
All right,
so let's go all the way down here, we want
to add one more item to this contact.
I'm going to add in this
beautiful image right here.
So let's just see what
the image looks like,
it's a little loading icon right there.
How nice is that little loading icon?
Our icon, that is, all right, so
I'm gonna add one more item to it.
It's gonna call it div
class = htmx-indicator.
Now that is what that css is for.
This is a generalized way to solve this
problem, and so you can use this for
all indicators, so
let's look at that css one more time.
If you have indicator on your class,
we set your opacity to 0 and
we have a transition of 500 milliseconds
if it were to become visible.
Then remember how there's all those
events that happen with htmx?
Well, when an element
is a part of a request,
htmx-request will be
added to its class list.
So notice that I say this,
if one of our parents has an htmx-request
than our opacity becomes one.
If we have that, our opacity becomes 1, so
we can kind of define both possibilities.
And so that way we can load
an indicator and show it upon request.
So now we have that nice delay,
everything should be good.
So let's refresh it,
obviously nothing's there.
When I click Delete, What happened?
Well, nothing,
we didn't actually add the indicator.
So let's go back over here.
And when we do a delete,
I'm gonna add one more attribute here and
go hx-indicator =,
now we need to have some way to target it.
So we'll add a simple id,
id = contact indicator,
id, yeah, look at that beauty.
That is beautiful, isn't it?
There we go.
We now have, hey, the indicator for
this action exists in this location.
And so when that happens,
it's going to do all the addition
of things you needed to do.
So pretty nice.
So I'm gonna hit Refresh, and
now when I hit the Delete,
that thing will nicely show up during
the duration of the request, and
then be removed when it's done.
If we look at the actual elements,
let's look at the actual elements so
we can see what happens here.
So, when I hit that delete,
notice that htmx-request is
just added automatically to that class for
you.
So you don't have to think about it.
It allows you to have these things
added and there's actually more
classes that we can we can get,
which we will get here in just one second.
So that is one way to add
some level of interactivity.
It's good, but it's still, I mean,
it's shockingly declarative, right?
We pretty much declared exactly
how our element behaves,
including where our indicator is and
how it should behave.
So that's nice, but
it's still not as good.
So now we're gonna add
something called a swap delay.
So I want you to update your CSS with
this small little thing right here,
contact.htmx-swapping.
It's beautiful, okay.
And you could obviously
just make this generalized.
You could have a single way you do this,
or
you could have it a unique way for
each one.
We could use the max height thing,
though trying to animate on max
height is extremely difficult.
And there's all these CSS hacks you have
to do just to get height to go downwards.
My goodness., I hate CSS sometimes,
I just wanna just punch, hate it.
Anyways okay so we have contact we have
this I'm going to add it to the CSS.
So I'm just gonna walk over to the CSS and
I'm just gonna paste this little bit in,
yes my CSS is clearly a skill issue.
So we have this beautiful little piece of
CSS right here, so I'm gonna back to this.
And now we obviously want to add, I mean,
now we're getting into
like full front end here.
Now we have this nice little class contact
on it, so we know how to say, hey,
which one's gonna have this.
Now, when we do this right here,
what's gonna end up happening,
let's see, Is that, let's go back here.
So now you can see it, this right here,
we have a target on it.
When the target happens
before the swap happens,
it adds an additional class htmx swap or
swapping.
And it's gonna say, hey,
we're swapping out this element.
So if you need to do something with it,
you now have one visual hook in
your CSS to do something with it.
And it also has something else, which
is I can go swap for 500 milliseconds.
I want you to just give me
500 milliseconds on this so
I can make something pretty myself.
So when we go back here,
and I click Delete,
it will do the whole indication for three
seconds and then the swap will happen.
We'll do that nice little fade out and
then it goes away.
Now you imagine again you can do the whole
height thing, you can make that too much
smoother experience, you can kind
of choose what you want to do here.
And so it's just another way in which
case mix just gives you a bunch of events
to tap into.
Its kind of your responsibility
to go the nine yards on this.
And so I don't know I like that,
I think it's really, really simple and
I think it really shows a great way to
make nice tools fairly simple, right?
Cuz most of our life is making tools very
few things are maintaining very wonderful
awesome websites.
All the little ancillary things around
it you don't need to have an entire
monolithic application for
just the simple stuff.